---
layout: post
title: lol
author:
  - Kinten
date: 05/06/2021
thumbnail: /assets/image/tst1.png
tags: log manga anime
excerpt: lol
---
Cultural appreciation

Some films and stuff during quarantine (in resolution)

The rating shows how deeply I'm swayed by the work, not how good it is objective or subjectively to others. You're warned.

Shawshank Redemption: It was surprising for me to find out that SR was a *box office disappointment (having to compete with Forrest Gump, which over this film I do not favor).* In spite of this, and as proven by its nomination and subsequent reception of an Academy Award, the film was a success, a classic if not. From the artistic standpoint, I would say that it did its job, although I've seen way better cinematography. What stood out the most for me was the story, and how for the longest time since *Up!* and *Interstellar* it managed to bring a tear to my eyes. Otherwise, SR was the first film to open me up to a new state of mind, a renewed mentality towards films and literature as a whole, as personal as it sounds. I could spoil neither the film nor the incident attached me to it. For the latter, however, I could say that it was a hard lesson that fundamentally changed or at least motivated me to later change my attitude towards life and work. 8/10

Forrest Gump: I do find myself relating so much to the film (both in terms of Forrest's life and the satire prevailing in the film) that I am at a loss for words. The only problem for me however is that I don't tend to hold comedies, or heart-warming stories specifically, in high regard. 7/10

Oyasumi Punpun: I came to this manga, or seinen, with the weird expectation of a bird creature living among its childhood friends. In the end, the manga went in a direction that I could hardly extrapolate from the few Youtube compilations of this manga that I was exposed to. Inio had me when it came to character development: not that it is new or inventive, but "bold" per se in that the story explored the darker corners in relationships in a way that I could only compare to one classic sekai-kei, *Neon Genesis Evangelion*. The side characters such as Seki, Sachi (my favorite), Yuichi, and Midori, are probably more memorable than the man-child Punpun himself. Interestingly enough, I seem to be able to relate bits of myself to all of these characters, especially when I read this during a time of great changes in life. The protagonist was probably written to be as miserable as it could get, the way I see it, so I doubt that any could relate to him - if anything, he is anything that we ourselves despise but is unfortunately what we partially and innately are, hence the popular comment that the seinen motivates people to knock down on work and to bring changes to our lives. The themes of depression and disorientation in life are hard to digest, but it's worth it. In the end, I do like it for being my 'serious' entrance to manga. Before this, manga is known to me by works like 'Naruto' or 'Conan' - most of which are shounen, family-friendly stories with Talk No Jutsu and good endings - but I've never thought about the adult themes that they could discuss. Reading interviews of mangaka is also a great source of inspiration. Overall, this is a masterpiece to my standard. Living is painful, and dying is easy anyway. Choosing to live is a bad ending, but running away from it is worse.  9/10, Good Vibrations!

Solani: Inio Asano's first work, and an internationally-acclaimed one. I still hold onto it that this is Oyasumi's secret sequel, potentially written by Sat-chan canonically. Unfortunately, I may find it less relatable due to not reaching University yet, but I'll read it later just in case. For now, 7/10

Omori: Didn't play it, just watch the whole playthrough. I almost cried. 7/10

Se7en: Masterpiece. Beautiful Cinematography. I was hooked on the film once having seen a video essay by Filmento on the film and its influence could potentially be seen on Matt Reeves's upcoming *The Batman*. And right off the bat, I was engrossed in the world presented: If anything, Se7en creates a better Arkham city than the DC universe could ever do.  8/10

Jujutsu Kaisen (first two episodes): Kinda boring, though I may continue. Heard a lot of praise. I should be more patient.

The Fountainhead: Larger-than-life personalities clashing with others in an American society valuing unity over individuality. The new American values were invented by Ayn Rand in 1943. Americans before 1943. 7/10

Code Geass: For good or ill, Lelouch didn't lose his morality as Light did: if not, he invented one of the most iconic ending tropes in anime history, zero's requiem, so much so that its impact can be seen today in the most unexpected manga, Attack on Titan. A political thriller. It's rare to see a political anime being portrayed in such styles. On the other hand, this series is filled with fan service, even worse than Sword Art Online. 7/10.

Chainsaw-man: 2 days. Experience Makima's grasp. Unfortunately, I'm not the kind of guy who enjoys fan service even if I could be hardened like others. 7.9/10 in favor of Fire Punch.

Nayuta: Fujimoto did one more service more loli fans. 7/10

Tokyo Ghoul Re: hey I didn't finish it. 7/10

Blame: hey I didn't finish it. Still, I feel it that some scenes are too confusing, and the plots are all over the place. Other than that, appreciate the art style. Look forward to the anime! 7/10

Zack Snyder's Justice League: Appreciate Zack's effort and his skills in revamping the DCEU as befits his vision. Love his saga (BvS was the first 'real' film where I witness a serious, big-screen batman, even before TDK). Love the final scene with Flash. Unfortunately due to some objective imperfections, esp by prolonging the screen, and making me wait for 5 years, 7/10

Watchmen (HBO): For the sake of ZS JL, watched it long before and still didn't check the comics or Zack Snyder's. Still, I love the show. Again: style, seriousness, uniqueness. These may be of a basic taste, but nonetheless, it does entertain me as a film and an artistic work. 8/10

Bakemonogatari: premium waifu material. Its dialogues and references are so good that there's no denial. 8/10

Fire Punch: Chainsaw-man but not down-toned. I do feel like the semi-final act (soft reset) is quite incongruously executed, or that something feels wrong. Some relationships were not fully resolved or seen developed in the end, like between San and ###. Togata's revelation just came out of nowhere. While her character was quite appealing as the story later progressed, at the start, she was the greatest nuisance. Making me go through quite a number of chapters to start liking her; if anything, she was the highlight of the story, posing the 'what if' question of what people will do once achieving immortality, and later losing her was a real pain. To me, the story peaked at the Agnism act (so many conflicts). Still, it was a wild ride. To Agni: live, you don't have to become Fire Punch now. 8/10

Half-Life 2 - Raising the bar: just for the sake of contrast with FH - HLA. 7.5/10 the latter installment did raise the bar.

Final Hours of Half-Life Alyx: An insight into game development hell. Not that I've never seen a game development hell, but now it's just good being here. 8/10

Jujutsu Kaisen: Now that I start reading into it, I realize why my first watch was quite unexceptional. Itadori does not relate to me as much as other personalities do, like Megumi, or Nobara, or Maki, or literally everyone else in this manga. I'm considering the anime too. I'd say that each has its own uniqueness; while we can't deny the spectacle of sakugas or scenes that are close to them, the manga gives room for me to imagine how things could play out according to my vision. The manga experience is perhaps more active.

Attack on Titan Season 4 (manga): Read with extra pages included. I didn't read it thoroughly, just some snippets from online compilations, but I do enjoy it a lot. Honestly, the ending was not up to my highest satisfaction, but I dislike Hajime Isayama's approach in no way. In fact, notwithstanding online criticism, the extra pages made the ending better and more in alignment with what I envision. Love for the author. We were at the depths of despair, and it's romantic that we still are. I'll just keep moving forward. 9/10

Attack on Titan Next Generation: Hopefully this won't happen.

As you can see:

7/10: it's good, really good. It's normal really.

8/10: it's phenomenal. I like it.

9/10: masterpiece. It changed my life.

10/10: would bang. JKD but I highly doubt that any would reach this level.

You may notice it but I've given these mangas really high ratings, and that's because I don't spend too much time on works I don't like, or at least I don't want to rate them based on my subjective opinion. To generalize it, and it is biased: Life is too short for me to read 'bad' content.