---
layout: post
title: Thoughts on the VR industry and the status quo.
author:
  - Kinten
date: 21/04/2021
thumbnail: /assets/image/shallowtatterediridescentshark-size_restricted.gif
tags: EBC VR
excerpt: Virtual Reality, albeit still in its infancy, is on the rise and will
  see much improvement as we advance through the next decade, as did any
  technological inventions.
---
I came to this conclusion largely after the debuts of certain VR titles. First, there was Stress Level Zero's Boneworks, a HL/Portal-inspired VR FPS similar to the likes of Pavlov VR, its predecessor. Blade & Sorcery VR was another remarkable hit, as it astonished me when players climbed up to poles by grabbing onto the surface and lifting themselves with their two bare hands - with no concern for weight, of course. Most considerable of all, of course, was Half-life Alyx, serving both as Valve's unexpected love letter to the fans (still haven't finished the book where its development is unveiled: Final Hours of HL Alyx - written by Crowbcat and the gaming community's main source of cringe compilations, the man himself, video game journalist Geoff Keighley) and supposedly as the first real high-budget and definitive VR game. Initial exposure to this title of course got me in clouds of doubt because if anything, HL Alyx's staple gameplay was a significant downgrade (yet luckily not a subject of Crowbcat's wrath) and a far cry from Boneworks's innovative approach. It felt odd, yet I could not be the one to judge given my experience with VR was close to zero. It was then that I was motivated to make my journey into the world of VR, with the extra intention of seeing its full potentials. I held onto my belief that within VR lies an untapped market, and I hoped that I wasn't wrong.

In the past 2010s, despite breakthroughs being made, the state of VR hasn't quite changed, with much stagnation in the VR video game market (to this day). Any piece of technology takes time to get accustomed to. Right now every user would complain about a multitude of VR issues: eye-straining, the overkill pricetags, the expensive pieces of equipment, or the space-consuming setup, etc. Still, I remain hopeful that this will soon change. Facebook Research is increasingly active in the field of VR technology (recently they have achieved CV-based hand detection and it was the closest they've ever got to controller-less 6DOF VR), and so are Microsoft, HTC, and possibly Apple. The point here is that we could anticipate a wave of innovations: when one innovation takes off, others will follow suit, just as we saw with ARKit and ARCore. Thus we must be well-equipped first.

On that note, I also noticed untapped potentials in the mobile platform of VR. Not being someone working directly with its development, for now, I'm not certain as to why it has failed so miserably recently (perhaps it has to do with public interest). While much progress has ceased (first with Gear VR, then with Cardboard SDK), as a developer running short on money I felt every need to kickstart my project on the mobile VR platform. It's cheap and ready-made with your smartphone. It tends to overheat, I must agree, but so does Genshin Impact. As a tech user, there's a great need to stay at the forefront of techs, but sometimes the best techs are derived from the need to commercialize and perfect established ones, as we have seen with any Apple product ever.

Yet, even with the most compatible tech, developing in VR, let alone any application, has never been easy. There's a certain *right* way to it, to bring out the true feel of it. A software developer must learn to use UX and UI to his advantage. Let's say that we start with Google Cardboard. With something as minimal as this, there is even more to consider. Cardboard is a 3DOF headset (tracking head rotation), as opposed to a 6DOF one (tracking head rotation and position, and your hands', too). How are users enabled to move around virtually and navigate? Should it even be allowed? There are a plethora of questions we have to answer, and reeling them off here would be anything but me rambling.

(Notice how I didn't mention AR. I believe they're very close to each other, not just two sides of the same coin. AR is essentially more stripped-down. It serves phones exclusively but is due to overheating, not to mention the view is tiny. One day they may as well be incorporated into one - MR, XR, you name it.)

{% include image-inline.html type="left" width="41" src="/assets/image/noprntscrn.gif" alt="Unity for VR development." %} Realizing this, I may as well revive past projects, which is exactly what I will do. In the past months I've been dabbling in Unity, a game engine also for VR development, during which most ventures have not come into fruition: they are, in the end, test builds. Granted, the word *dabbling* is quite an understatement, given I have used the engine for two years now, not to mention that one time when I made a half-baked VR demo in a school convention. It is oftentimes my inability to bring myself to work carefully, however, that has led to past failures. Not to mention was my diluted focus as I struggled to find the best fits for my long-term career. Surely it is high time that I brought myself to discipline and worked it out. If this will not be urgent enough, a month later I am also going to busy myself prepping for university anyway. That would be more annoying.


The path that I'll undertake will not be smooth sailing. My rough-hewn cardboard *Cardboard* headset is by no means unusable, but I'll surely miss such basic functions as long-pressing as an essential VR interaction. I'll have to upgrade it, but even that is followed by certain personal requirements that I must meet.

Whatever happens, this will surely be exciting.